Add logging policy (#5299)
ChainSafe/lodestar: CONTRIBUTING.md

  - Error: One or more main functionalities are not working, preventing some functions from working properly.
  - Fatal: One or more main functionalities are not working and preventing the application from fulfilling its duties.

## Logging policy

### Logging Levels

> Contributors must chose the log level carefully to ensure a consistent experience for every type of user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributors must choose the log level carefully to ensure a consistent experience for every type of user:
```

- `error`: Critical issues that prevent the application from functioning correctly or cause significant disruption to users. Examples include failed network connections, crashes, or data corruption.
- `warn`: Situations that may lead to critical issues if not addressed but do not prevent the application from functioning. Examples include configuration issues, deprecated features, or temporary network disruptions.
- `info`: General sporadic informational about the node's state. Examples include initialization messages, infrequent periodic status updates, or high-level progress reports.
- `debug`: Detailed diagnostic information that can help developers or users troubleshoot specific issues. Examples include individual request logs for every REST API, networking interactions, or internal components status changes. Alias to `verbose`.

> - `trace`: Reserved for extremely verbose logs such a step by step execution traces of individual network packets or similar granular actions

Reviewer: Are we removing trace?

  - Error: One or more main functionalities are not working, preventing some functions from working properly.
  - Fatal: One or more main functionalities are not working and preventing the application from fulfilling its duties.

> ## Logging policy

Reviewer 2: maybe add some text after this heading to explain in one sentence why the Logging policy section exists and what it is supposed to achieve

Reviewer 2: kinda like this `Contributors must chose the log level carefully to ensure a consistent experience for every type of user`, maybe should just add this here and rephrase it a bit

### Logging Levels

> - `error`: Critical issues that prevent the application from functioning correctly or cause significant disruption to users. Examples include failed network connections, crashes, or data corruption.

Reviewer 3: In the logging levels we can include that: 

`error` would normally contain error codes/ crash logs.

`warn` may include environment variables or other context related variables.

`debug` would include logs about specific issues, api and function calls in code that would be useful in testing / outside of production.

`verbose` may include stack traces  and all logs relevant to monitor performance

- `warn`: Situations that may lead to critical issues if not addressed but do not prevent the application from functioning. Examples include configuration issues, deprecated features, or temporary network disruptions.
- `info`: General sporadic informational about the node's state. Examples include initialization messages, infrequent periodic status updates, or high-level progress reports.

> - `verbose`: _TBD_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `verbose`: High-level state changes to internal modules. Examples include chain and state updates.
```

- `debug`: Detailed diagnostic information that can help developers or users troubleshoot specific issues. Examples include individual request logs for every REST API, networking interactions, or internal components status changes.

> ### Guideliness

Reviewer: I feel like we need a guideline about when/where to include a stack trace

Author: That's a good point. How could we summarize it? I would say that when the error message provides all possible location information the stack trace can be omitted. We do not support suppressing stack traces out of the box, and the uncontrolled nature of Javascript exceptions could be an issue if we start omitting stack traces. **very** relevant to this topic https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6cap2HiBFVQ

Reviewer 2: Are we ok with not adding a bit more details about stack traces? I think the `ApiError` is a pretty good example of when not to include the stack trace as changed in https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/pull/5285

- it is thrown on a higher level in the stack
- it is explicitly thrown based on simple assertions
- the error is expected to happen due to invalid client requests
- the error message is usually good which makes it easy to find out where it was thrown

Not including the stack trace of course can come with a cost of not being able to easily debug an issue but this should be rarely the case if we are careful to only do it for some errors but let's not forget the cost of including the stack trace in terms of UX. Not being able to easily read the logs because of too much stack trace is also not ideal.

I would argue that `debug` logs can include stack traces more often/always but for levels higher than or equal `info` need to be more careful.

Reviewer: I just approved the PR so this didn't sit for too long. Happy to merge more verbiage about when stack traces are acceptable. Totally agree with your comment.

> ### Guideliness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Guidelines
```

> 1. Always use the appropriate log level as defined above. Log messages should be clear and concise, providing enough information to understand the context and severity of the issue.

Reviewer 3: I think `1.` and `2.` are essentially saying very similar things. I would combine them to say

```suggestion
1. Logs should state clearly and concisely only that which is required to understand / troubleshoot an issue. Including any error codes, stack traces, debug logs or environment variables which are applicable.
```

building off https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/pull/5299/files#r1150637797

Author: Simplified 1 and 2

2. Avoid excessive logging. Log only the information that is necessary for understanding and troubleshooting issues. Over-logging can make it more difficult for users to find relevant information.
3. Do not log sensitive data, such as private keys, user credentials, or personal information.

> 4. Do not log arbitrary data from the network as ASCII or UTF8 at levels higher or equal to the current default level.

Reviewer 2: it is not clear to me what is meant by `at levels higher or equal to the current default level`, specifically what does the term "level" refer to here?

Author: level refers to log level with values: "error", "warn", etc. Please let me know how could I re-write the sentence for better comprehension

Reviewer 2: "current default level" will always be `info` so I think we can make it a bit more explicit

```suggestion
4. Do not log arbitrary data from the network as ASCII or UTF8 at levels other than `debug` and `verbose`.
```

or

```suggestion
4. Do not log arbitrary data from the network as ASCII or UTF8 at levels higher or equal to `info`.
```

> 5. Use clear and concise language. Prefer to log variables in JSON format `log.debug("Action", {slot})` instead of formating the text yourself `log.debug('slot=${slot}')`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Use clear and concise language. Prefer to log variables in JSON format `log.debug("Action", {slot})` instead of formatting the text yourself `log.debug('slot=${slot}')`.
```

6. Include only relevant context in log messages, sufficient to debug the issue or action it refers to.

> Contributors must chose the log level carefully to ensure a consistent experience for every type of user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contributors must chose the log level carefully to ensure a consistent experience for every type of user.
```
